# Webpack
Atlast T5 Webpack React Project

## Sections
<a name="Sections"></a>
1. [Learning Objectives](#learningObjectives)
2. [Requirements](#requirements)
3. [Installs](#installs)
4. [Scripts](#scripts)
5. Task 0. [Basic setup](#basicSetup)
6. Task 1. [Learning how to use Webpack with a config file](#webpackWithConfig)

[Credits](#Credits)

__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
## Learning Objectives
<a name="learningObjectives"></a>
- How to setup Webpack for a basic project
- Entry points, output, and loaders
- How to add plugins
- How to split your code into chunks
- How to setup a dev server

[Back to top](#Sections)
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

## Requirements
<a name="requirements"></a>
- All of your code will be executed on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS using Node 12.x.x
- Allowed editors: vi, vim, emacs, Visual Studio Code
- All of your files should end with a new line
- A README.md file at the root of the folder of the project is mandatory

[Back to top](#Sections)
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

## Installs
<a name="installs"></a>
- `npm install webpack webpack-cli --save-dev`
- `npm install html-webpack-plugin@next --save-dev`
  - take off "@next" if not installed

[Back to top](#Sections)
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

## Scripts
<a name="scripts"></a>
```
"scripts": {
  "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1",
  "dev": "webpack --mode development",
  "build": "webpack --mode production"
},
```

[Back to top](#Sections)
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

## Task 0. Basic Setup
<a name="basicSetup"></a>
### Create and run Webpack using a basic installation.
- Create a folder named task_0.
- Install webpack and webpack-cli as developer dependencies within the folder using npm.
- Install jQuery as a regular dependency using npm.
- Make sure that webpack and webpack-cli are listed under the devDependencies key along with jQuery being listed under the dependencies key within the package.json
- Create a src directory with a index.js in it.
- The file should import jquery and add three different paragraphs to the page body: (refer to this link under the Babel section for importing jQuery)

```
Holberton Dashboard

Dashboard data for the students

Copyright - Holberton School
```

- Create a dist/index.html. Import your main.js in the body.
- You must use jQuery to add the elements to the body of the page.
- When running Webpack, your javascript and html files should be generated in a dist folder.
- You should not use a custom webpack config file.
- Opening your main file should not generate any error in the console.
- Your html code should only import one Javascript script (the one generated by webpack).
- Do NOT push your dist/main.js if you have one.

### Repo:

- GitHub repository: atlas-web_react
- Directory: Webpack
- File: task_0/package.json, task_0/src/index.js, task_0/dist/index.html

[Back to top](#Sections)
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

## Task 1. Learning how to use Webpack with a config file
<a name="webpackWithConfig"></a>
### Installing packages
- Create a folder named task_1, cd into it, and create a package.json using npm init -y
- Install webpack (dev dependency), jQuery (dependency), and Lodash (dependency) within the folder using npm.
- Modify your package.json to add a build script that runs webpack to create build output. This lets you execute npm run build on the command line.

### Using jQuery
- Create a js directory with a javascript file named dashboard_main.js in it. The file should import jquery and add the below elements in the following order:
  - Paragraph element: Holberton Dashboard
  - Paragraph element: Dashboard data for the students
  - Button element with the text Click here to get started
  - Add a paragraph element as so <p id='count'></p>
  - Add another paragraph: Copyright - Holberton School

### Prevent spammers
- Write a function called updateCounter() that tracks the number of times the button element has been clicked.
- Each time it’s called, update the count by 1 and set the content of the paragraph element with id=‘count’ to {count} clicks on the button
- Bind the debounce function in Lodash to the click event on the button you created previously (The number of milliseconds to delay invocation should be 500).

### Requirements:
- When running Webpack, your javascript should be generated in a public folder. You should also place your index.html in this folder.
- The javascript file generated by Webpack should be named bundle.js
- Set Webpack config mode to production
- Opening your html file should not generate any error in the console
- Your html code should only import one Javascript script (the one generated by webpack)

### Resources:
[Debounce documentation on Lodash](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15#debounce)

### Repo:

- GitHub repository: atlas-web_react
- Directory: Webpack
- File: task_1/js/dashboard_main.js, task_1/package.json, task_1/webpack.config.js, task_1/public/index.html

[Back to top](#Sections)
